Title: Communication with your customer
Date: 2012-03-10 23:34
Author: EmadMokhtar
Category: Developer
Tags: development, software

![people sleeping on the floor at airport]({filename}/images/pict0554.jpg)

Today I was having a flight from Egypt, Cairo International Airport to
Kuwait International Airport and when the airplane was almost reach
Kuwait the pilot keep flying in circles and never enter the Kuwaiti
boards and fly to the Arabian Gulf for 15 minutes we are wondering Why
is he flying in all direction but not the one to Kuwait?

This situation give me a sight for How your customer will feel when you
haven’t or stop giving him/her information about the software. s/he’ll
keep wondering what is he doing to my product? Is it done? Is it won’t
be done?  and sometimes his/her mind will go to the opposite direction
of what you are doing.

Finally we found that there is a sandstorm at Kuwait International
Airport and the visibility is zero and we can’t land, so we changed our
direction to Dubai Airport to land there and what for the sandstorm to
stop so we can get back. None of us thing in this.

The part above I wrote while I’m sitting on floor beside the power
socket to charge my laptop s I can write these thoughts and here I’m
from another date and time after one week from this journey sitting on
my couch continue writing this post, as I felt and saw the final result
of what the airline did to us, after suffering from lack of information
and even if we got it we get it too late, after we landed at the
destination everyone forgive the airline because it deliver what we
want, we want to get home have some rest in our bed, we want to get home
whatever it takes and this what the airline did but with so mistakes but
after it did it we become a happy customers.

**The bottom line:** keep communicate with your customers and tell them
what you’re doing even if it’s not the best way to do it or what you’re
facing right now, and remember what the customer want is the most
important goal you must get it whatever whenever however.
